Adapting with Life/1

We cannot predict the turns our lives will take, and our Telco Products adapt to changes in our lives rather than us adapting our lives to our Telco Products.

The majority of Telco products are structured around subscriptions; rigid contracts with fixed durations. Telcos in some countries have historically provided Customers subsidized devices. The subsidized devices are provided in exchange for a commitment to a subscription for a fixed duration with minimum monthly charges to cover the device’s cost. In contemporary times, where the price of a Smartphone is comparable to that of a laptop, the minimal monthly charges may surpass a Customer’s projected consumption. Customers are increasingly willing to purchase their own Smartphones and only require access to calling, messaging and data. If there are deep-rooted changes in a customer’s life, such as losing their job or going through a divorce, their contracts tend to remain the same. Customers are forced to project their contemporary circumstances for the duration of the contract, and purchase products based on their “best-case” consumption. Once entered into this contract, they feel locked, and are unable to make changes easily. Rather than a communications or lifestyle product that is responsive to changes in a person’s life, it feels like purchasing a product from a Bank or an Insurance company. Telco products carry the impression of being loaded with heavy contractual terms, and miss opportunities to sell smaller one-off purchases, such as a single song without a music subscription, an hour’s pass for high-speed internet, or a 1 week all-you-can-call rate to an international number. Customers cope today with other solutions from other providers where they do not feel locked in, such as paying for an hour’s worth of WiFi access with a hotel in a foreign country despite having a mobile subscription.

Therefore structure Telco products to exist on a base platform where subscriptions can be added or removed at will. A subscription for unlimited calls can be replaced by a subscription for 200 minutes of calls per month at half the price with a few interactions in the space of seconds. Subscriptions become recurring unless explicitly stopped, and can be stopped at any time. If the customer has a subsidized device, give the flexibility to add and remove subscriptions at will as long as their total charged subscription rate and consumption equals their minimum required commitment. Customers are able to purchase one-off products at competitive prices, such as a single TV episode, an hour’s high-speed internet access, or a week’s pass to call an international number. In difficult moments of a customer’s life, such as the moments when they lose their job or lose a loved one, give them the complete flexibility to tailor their subscriptions in any way they want, to the extent of removing all subscriptions. Provide customers with clear communications explaining the reasons for the flexibility being the desire to develop empathy with their situation.

Understand the nature of change through the stories of the Participating Demographic, and correlate situations to product structures in the Productpedia with Ones just like that One. Understand a customer’s exact situation through examining the Aware Instances and their Change History. Assess their loyalty by how much they possess in the Own Base Currency. Give more freedom than usual in these situations so Customers create their Own install base, and suggest One just like that One as alternatives.
