Charge upon Consumption|5|Operations

Pre-paid customers are charged and make payments immediately after usage using their pre-paid credits as they always have. Post-paid customers are also charged immediately after usage, and can choose to pay immediately or anytime within a minimum interval and for a minimum amount derived from their loyalty and the consistency with which they have paid in the past.

Most Telcos have traditionally distinguished their products based on when customers were charged for consumption. Customers who have low consumption requirements or have poor or non-existent credit-ratings are typically offered pre-paid products with relatively simple pricing structures. Customers purchase credit in advance for these pre-paid products, and they are charged immediately after the completion of consumption. Customers with pre-paid products tend to be cautious about their spending, as they are able to correlate their consumption directly with charging. Post-paid products were initially targetted at individuals with good credit-rating who were not as conscientious about their spend as the average pre-paid customer, closely mimicing the business model offered by credit card companies. With the increased gap between consumption and charging, customers are likely to increase the volume of their consumption. In the absence of little or no initial regulation, customers were increasingly faced with high bills. In order to allay fears of further high bills, a variety of cost-saving measures were made available to post-paid customers. The most common cost-saving measure was to pre-purchase a certain about of calling, messaging, and data volume in advance, typically on a recurring basis in the form of a subscription. Given the variety calling, messaging, data consumption habits, it did not take long for a high variety of subscriptions to emerge. By further linking these post-paid subscriptions to subsidized devices, where customers would receive free or discounted devices in exchange for termed commitments, customers were faced with even greater choice for post-paid products. Thus while pre-paid products remained structurally simple and processable within moments after consumption, post-paid products grew increasingly complex and required more complex processing. Mimicing the customer's deferred payment, post-paid consumption began to be processed in closer sychronization the customer's payment cycle. Separate systems were used for pre-paid and post-paid charging. The relatively simple processing structures of post-paid products allowed them to be processed by a standard network component called the Intelligent Network, while post-paid products were processed by specialized billing systems. Most Telcos had the tendency to develop their own customized billing systems to process their post-paid products in the 1980s to early 2000, given their market differentiated post-paid portfolio and the lack of mature commmercial-off-the-shelf billing systems. Distinctions were required between rating, which evaluated the individual event of consumption, with periodic charging, where all individually rated events are considered collectively, although such clear distinctions between rating and charging is inconsistently applied. Replacing these highly customized billing systems with commercial off-the-shelf systems are usually complex undertakings, especially given that the high variety of post-paid products are usually migrated to these new implementations. While technology systems are firmly divided into pre-paid and post-paid worlds, the consumption habits of customers have changed. Pre-paid produts have lost their social stigma of being associated with poor credit-ratings, and customers with strong credit-ratings purchase over-the-top products such as Voice over IP (VOIP), Music, and Movies in pre-paid configurations from providers other than the Telco. Conversely, it is increasingly common for customers to have a post-paid product for connectivity and have pre-paid over-the-top products (e.g. consume applications or music on demand) or have pre-paid products for connectivity and have subscriptions for content (e.g. monthly music or movie subscriptions). These over-the-top products operate in a competitive marketplace, and the market leaders provide customers with consumption and charging history as it occurs. Customers are increasingly having to cope with fragmented charging for the consumption, where some of the charging information is provided by the Telco, some by marketplace where the product was purchased, and some within the charging features of the product itself. While most customers would probably prefer consolidated charging and reporting from a single party, it is yet to emerge whether that party will be the Telco, the Device Manufacturer, the Device's Operating System provider, or a Product that operates on a the Device's Operating System. The winner will probably be the party that generates the greatest trust through transparency and reliability in charging.

Margin Call on "With the increased gap between": Marketing 300 free minutes of call time rather than 5 hours can lead customers to prime themselves to believe that the net sum of their individual conversations are shorter than they actually are. See Bargh, J. A., & Chartrand, T. L. 1999. The unbearable automaticity of being. American Psychologist 54(7), 462–479. Walker, W.R. and Snowronski, J.J. 2003. Life Is Pleasant—and Memory Helps to Keep It That Way! Review of General Psychology Copyright. Vol. 7, No. 2, 203–210. [linkto: https://www.apa.org/pubs/journals/releases/gpr-72203.pdf]

Margin Call on "In order to allay fears of further high bills and relying on the illusion": Most individuals tend to believe that they are in greater control of their behaviour than they actually are, and that they exhibit htis controlled behaviour with consistency. See Langer, E. J. 1975. The illusion of control. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 32(2), 311–328. Goethals, G. R., & Reckman, R. F. 1973. The perception of consistency in attitudes. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology 9(6), 491–501. For a more accessible explanation, see "How the Consistency Bias Warps Our Personal and Political Memories" [linkto: http://www.spring.org.uk/2008/02/how-consistency-bias-warps-our-personal.php]

Therefore rate and charge customers immediately after consumption, irrespective of when customers choose to pay for that consumption. Each individual charge is then entered as a debit record for the customer's balance. Customers can make payments at any time, and their payments are entered as credits for their balance. The time interval and minimum payable amounts that customers must credit are a function of an individual customer's loyalty and history of past payments which establishes their credit-worthiness. A customer with poor credit-worthiness must credit their account before being able to use any services that will debit that account. A customer with better credit-worthiness use services that debit their account without having credited it beforehand with pre-defined limits. A customer with excellent credit-worthiness will be able use services to much higher pre-defined limits. Make it clear to customers that their credit-worthiness is a function of their timely payments and loyalty, and reward their timely payments and loyalty with a better credit-worthiness. Provide customers with the option to move the charging of their over-the-top products and services, which they settle through other payment channels, to a consolidated payment channel managed by the Telco. The financial liquidity of a customer is subject to change, and in difficult moments of their lives, provide customers that have been loyal some leeway in making their payments. Provide advisory services for customers in financial difficulty on how they can optimize their consumption to lower their overall charges, such as removing or reducing the consumption of certain non-essential products. Permit customers to reduce their payable amounts with aggregated loyalty points at all times. Make the entire charging platform accessible to third-parties so that they can easily provide products and services through the Telco. Make it possible for customers to understand their consumption based on a variety of views, such as their timeline, location, format, or provider of their consumption. Give customers the option to use a variety of payment methods, such as direct debits from their bank accounts or paying cash at a store of the Telco. If possible, avoid payment channels that create debt for customers or act as a payment consolidator, such as credit cards. In affect, Telcos can assume the role of credit cards with greater flexibility and trust. 

Offer customers a variety of products Planted in a Single Garden with Themed Areas with clear information on pricing and required credit-worthiness. As a Trusted Advisor, correlate a customer's situation to other customers in a similar situation, making it possible for one individual to get One just like that One. Position possibility by making suggestions about what customers may like or ways for them to reduce their spend in moments of financial difficulty by Adapting with Life. Establsh a Meritocracy of Resellers by making them Trusted Advisors who place the customer's best interests first. Invite makers of other products and services to co-create new offerings through an Infrastructure Coalition. Simplify the diversified offerings in the Telco's Experience Store through its Own Base Currency purchased through Tollhouse Couponing. Using Softground Sockets, provide 3rd parties with the means to easily add their product portfolio to the Telco's own, and feature the best of these diversified offerings in periodic Flower Shows.

TODOs: Create a User Experience/Diagram after the Therefore section that shows how customers are able to view their consumption, debits/credits, loyalty points, credit-worthiness, last payments, and possible redemptions.
