Continuous Harvesting

A product, once planted, is harvested continuously. In projects, it would be forgotten once planted.

When products are first implemented and launched, they receive sales, marketing, technology, and operational focus. Sales channels and marketing campaigns are focused on making the new product commercially successful and embedding it in the consciousness of potential customers. With the spotlight turned in the direction of new products, the attention on older products wanes to the extent that they are commercially withdrawn. The same cycle continues on the new products, which are soon replaced with newer products. As products realized through projects, it becomes difficult to manage and understand their lifecycle once the projects have been complete. Nevertheless changes are made to the product through other projects, such as projects for regulatory compliance or technology migrations, or through individual changes to add or modify features of the product. The product's contribution to the company's profitability and brand is poorly understood as the spotlight moves to the next big product launch.

Therefore when products first conceived, there should be notion of how they will be initially realized, launched, grown, operated, and their criteria for removal. Product managers should be assigned to products from the moment of their conception, and each Product Manager should have a fixed number of products in their portfolio. Products should contribute to the profitability of the company throughout their operational lifecycle, and their history of change and adaptation while being in operation should be easily visible.

A Few Skilled Gardeners should keep products in Constant Circulation through Pruning Products, Clearing Withering Products, evolving them on the basis of Recast Moulds, and identifying stable characteristics as Classic Lines. The Few Skilled Gardeners constantly create Product Markers for each Product in their care to make their characteristics and performance transparent to everyone within the Fortified Town.

Continuously Harvest