Customers create their Own|3

Customers can create their own Products by combining Product Elements themselves, and it becomes possible for no two Customers have the exact same Product.

Telcos have traditionally segmented their products, markets, operations, and organizations around solutions for individual customers and solutions for organizations. There has been a historical tendency to offer individual customers standardized solutions, and offer organizations customized solutions based on their needs. This division between individuals and companies isn't always so distinct in practice. Solutions for groups of individuals, such as couples or families, are not dissimilar from organizations, which are also groups of people. Self-employed individuals usually have their own companies where they are the only employee, and several small businesses have consumption patterns not dissimilar to families. Due to strong organizational boundaries between departments that handle solutions for individual customers and organizations, common knowledge, systems, and processes are rarely utilized despite the similarities between products. For instance, solutions for small businesses and one-person companies could use similar structures to solutions for individual or mass-market customers. Solutions for larger organizations tend to have a very high-scale of variation that is difficult to structure using standardized solutions. The needs of a multi-national corporate with employees that are travelling from country to country is usually quite different from the needs of a provincial government organization with most employees travelling to work in a single location. Offerings are usually created on a case-by-case basis for these larger organizations. Large organizations usually ask several operators to provide proposals and quotations based on requirements they've provided, and select the operator that best fits their needs. These needs are usually expressed in terms of coverage, service quality, connectivity, and service-level agreements. There is also a tendency for large organizations to negotiate specific deals, and they usually employ their own Telco managers to deal their communication needs and service-level agreements. Once an agreement is reached, products are then usually created to the large organization's exact requirements. If these requirements are specific to the needs of the organization, a project is usually initiated to realize the customer's exact needs. In some cases, standardized solutions can exist for specific industries ("verticals"). For instance, most hotels now offer telephony, tv, and wireless access solutions to their guests, and standardized and configurable solutions often exist for these specific industries. In an all Internet Protocol world, both individual and organizational customers are given greater choice beyond the traditional Telco products of voice, messaging, and data. Individual customers, couples, and families increasingly purchase a variety of products (multi-device calling, music, movies, messaging, games, video-conferencing, storage, books, in-car solutions, etc.) with different levels of regulation (fixed media budgets for children, blocking access to specific applications or content all the time or on specific times of the day, regulating availability by voice or messaging, regulating access for guests, curfews on internet access, etc.). When groups of individuals work or play together, they require coordinated access and regulation on these same products. For example, several individuals that work together can require access to the same files on a cloud storage solution where they pay for their collective storage needs. Or considering another example, all of the utility bills (power, heating, water, tv, communications, taxes, etc.) can be received within a single environment shared by all members of the family. As traditional Telco systems are structured around creating offerings using standardized models, templates, or specifications, creating a high-scale of variety where each customer has their own unique product would necessitate a specific model, template, or specification for each customer. Considering that each model, template, or specification requires a coordinated effort between several specialists (data modelers, process experts, service experts, etc.), the costs for having a complete model, template, or specification specific to reflect the situation of an individual customer would usually far outweigh the revenue generated by that customer. Yet to offer customers limited choice would reduce Telco operators to the role of dumb bit-pipes, where they do little more than provide network capacity for the high-revenue services of others providers that are able to meet varied customer needs.

Therefore permit each customer, whether they are an individual, representing a group of individuals, or a formal group of individuals like an organization, to create their own products using a common set of elements or building blocks. These elements are representative of the different features, and each element is aware of other elements with which they are compatible. Each element is accompanied with pricing information, and when finally composed, the entire product can be priced based on adding up the individual pricing elements, or on collectively assigning a price based on the categories of the elements that make up the product. Make it possible to have multiple categories for element which reflect the different aspects of usage, such as the product's required network capacity (delivering a movie requires different capacity from delivering a book although a book might be more expensive to buy than a movie), cultural considerations (language, content sensitivity, etc.), age considerations, etc. Make it possible for an individual to offer their composed products to other individuals, such as a parent within a family, a Telco manager in a large corporate, a technically savvy individual to his or her neighbours in an apartment block. Permit these individuals composing products and offering it to others to regulate and charge for consumption if required. Correlate a composed product to narratives of the customer's situation in the customer's own words. Provide customers the means and motivation to continuously add their narratives to their product usage through all the devices and mediums used by the customer to interact with the Telco (Self-service, Interactive Voice Response, Mobile Apps, etc.). Use knowledge mining to correlate the similar narratives together, and when new customers explain their needs to sales staff, offer them products created by other customers whose narratives bear a close resemblance to their own.

Margin Call on Therefore permit each customer: "The acts of the mind, wherein it exerts its power over simple ideas, are chiefly these three: 1. Combining several simple ideas into one compound one, and thus all complex ideas are made. 2. The second is bringing two ideas, whether simple or complex, together, and setting them by one another so as to take a view of them at once, without uniting them into one, by which it gets all its ideas of relations. 3. The third is separating them from all other ideas that accompany them in their real existence: this is called abstraction, and thus all its general ideas are made." John Locke, An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1690)

Products are realized with Declarative Component Dependencies, where Many Products Co-exist. Customers compose their own products using Pre-Provisioned Frequents and Aware Instances that are Decided by Matching with One just like that One or new product completely of their own creation. As changes occur in the lives of a customer, their products Adapt with Life, whether they the Customer created their Own or chose One just like that One.
