Everyone Cares|2

Customer care starts with the people most knowledgeable about the relevant product or service, and they work to spread their knowledge in different circles of expertise. It is in their own best interests to ensure that their knowledge is accessible, easy to understand, and tactically spread in order to manage the constraints of their own capacity.

The primary means to realize initiatives in Telcos are projects, which are used to realize products, services, resources, infrastructure, facilities, and customer support systems. Given that projects are usually setup with fixed criteria and budgets for initiation, execution, and completion, they usually have defined beginnings and ends. Most of the documentation in these projects are structured around realizing the product, service, or initiative, and not on operating or supporting them. Most Telcos have traditionally applied Waterfall methods of development and are gradually shifting to Agile methods. Larger programs with several vendors working in different locations tend to use waterfall methods, while smaller initiatives tend to use Agile methods. Projects are often delayed, and in the rush to complete these projects within time and budgets, compromises are often made in the quality of their deliverables, forcing Telcos to operate them with known issues. As most Telco operators are busy realizing several initiatives, project members usually move on to other projects after their defined role for the project has been completed. While critical issues usually get solved, non-critical issues that do not hamper operation or security guidelines usually remain unresolved for longer periods. Most Telcos also have dedicated customer care centers staffed by call center agents who usually end up handling these unresolved issues. It may even seem justifiable as resolving some of these issues require greater investments in time and money than adding call center capacity. Call centers are usually further divided into lines of support, where the 1st line initially handles all issues and resolves the most common ones, a 2nd line that tackles more complex issues, and a 3rd line for issues the other two lines were unable to resolve. In a cost-competitive market, call center agents are often temporary staff with relatively low wages, and call centers tend to have high employee turnover, particularly in their 1st line. To cope with the variety of issues from the large portfolios of products and services, call-centers usually have their own isolated knowledge bases which are rarely used or contributed to by other departments in the Telco. When new products or services are launched, call center agents are usually the first to find out about customer issues, and they usually do not have a connection with the project team that realized the product or service. Customers often have to deal with call center agents who are not knowledgeable about issues through no fault of their own. In an age where customers have ready access to social media, the reputation of a Telco can be severely damaged by the negative experience of a few individuals.

Therefore waterfall project teams focus on creating specifications that realize the product, service, or initiative in the beginning of the project, and gradually shift their focus to creating support material for operations mid-way through the project. Agile teams, who deliver frequently through smaller units of work with daily priorities, work on specifying both for realization and operation incrementally. As an operational team, such as call center agents, have to understand the operation of a product, service, or initiative end-to-end, agile teams work incrementally and continuously to enhance operational material and user guides rather than trying to deliver it all in the end. As the initiative nears completion, sessions are organized with a few experienced 3rd and 2nd line, and proportionally more 1st line to see if the support material is comprehensible. All material is entered into a common knowledge base shared by the project and customer support teams. Each element of knowledge is correlated with an individual or individuals. When the product, service, or initiative is completed, support calls are routed to individuals who are available for support and knowledgeable. Project team members are made available for a few days after the product, service, or initiative has "gone live" to face issues together with support staff. It is in the best interest of the project team to ensure that support staff are more or as knowledgeable about the initiative as soon as possible, as they would otherwise have to do all the support themselves.

Route support calls based on the Multi-criteria Directories and the Productpedia which collectively correlate knowledge with individuals in the organization. Before products are launched, project teams work with the Few Skilled Gardeners and Participating Demographic in Low-walled Town Communities to establish practices of knowledge sharing and transfer. Discuss new initiatives near the Town Well once they are launched, and ensure that the Whole Town Participates in using the product or service if possible. When support staff require help, there are Visible Assists either by other support staff or by the project teams. Project teams increasingly Specify to Operationalize halfway through a waterfall project and continuously in an agile project. The Few Skilled Gardeners work with Project teams to establish practices of knowledge sharing and transfer. New products, services, and initiatives with known issues receive Growth Supports and Shade from Others to ensure that early issues do not derail their operation.
