Everyone's Business|4|Organization Structure

There is no organizational entity called the "Business" or "Demand" whose job it is to come up with requirements, and there is no organizational entity called "Fulfillment" or "Supply" whose job it is to fulfill those requirements. Needs are identified collectively throughout the lifecycle of an initiative by Stories and Forces.

Telcos are usually divided into several specialized departments such as sales, marketing, technology, and finance. Most of these departments require applications to support their daily work. The individuals who are best placed to understand what these supporting applications should do are the people who use them the most frequently. Given the high proliferation of technology and new media in society, it is also likely these individuals have functional or technological solutions on how such an application should be realized, although they often lack the programming skills to develop such systems by themselves. Given their daily tasks and operational focus, it is difficult for these individuals to communicate their needs, ideas, or solutions directly with those who build, support, and maintain these applications. Most large organizations usually have communication channels administered by analysts via which such needs, ideas, or solutions are communicated. Business analysts must usually cope judging, prioritizing, filtering, and structuring high volumes of input. There is a tendency for at least 2 clusters of analysts to emerge, where one group is closer to individuals using the applications and another that is closer to the individuals building the applications. Both groups usually generate documents to reflect their analysis. The analysts closer to operations tend to consolidate and condense needs in spreadsheets as requirements, and are usually collectively referred to as the "Business" or "Demand Organization". The analysts closer to programmers tend to use models such as use cases or process descriptions to condense a large volume of specific and nuanced source material into more succinct and generalized specifications, and are usually referred to as "Solutions" or "Supply Management". There is also a tendency to engage a high number of Vendors and other 3rd parties to do the actual programming or implementation, who once again have their own chain of analysis. Finding the source of the original need is often difficult, and clarifications are usually made by individuals within the communication chain rather than the source. The roles of individuals in the communication chain tends to crystallize over time, and an organizational rift emerges between "Business",and "Business Support". Waterfall processes tend to be used more often than Agile processes, and these processes generate several documents in the communication chain. When documents are not shared on a common repository, there is a tendency for members in one step of the chain to only receive documents from members in the preceding step. Given the high volume of documents, it is often difficult to correlate them with each other, and audiences tend to selectively read the few documents that seem the most relevant. Agile processes are sometimes used when development is in-house or with highly trusted parties. Agile processes tend to reduce the number of analysts in the communication chain, especially in the Technology or Supply side, but the filteration process with actual users of applications tends to remain intact. The few analysts in the chain tend to assume the role of a "product owner", and select which of the experiences from operations or the market should be translated as user stories. While user stories are a more engaged method of reflecting the needs of users, they do not reflect the actual experience of a person engaged in a situation. User stories also tend to have the form of a solution, usually structured as a feature. For example, a call center agent facing angry customer who has purchased a newly launched product line of which the agent has little or no knowledge can be resolved in any number of ways. The lack of knowledge of a newly launched product could be true for all the other agents in the call center or only for that particular individual. The knowledge could be accessible in an understandable format by the agent where they haven't taken or had the time to do so, or the knowledge might be inaccessible or non-existent. The nuances of the particular situation are best understood by the person experiencing it, and analysts in the chain can selectively filter, make assumptions, dismiss, or generalize based on their personal value systems without realizing they are doing so. While there is a relatively higher amount of market research on customer-facing applications, the same research is rarely applied on internal support systems. Operational staff are usually faced with living with applications that don't meet their real needs, and have little or no means to realize or influence them. Given the hierarchical nature of most Telco organizations, it is often difficult for individuals to give open and frank feedback that can be openly shared throughout the organization. When operational staff do communicate their needs, they are often framed as complaints of what is wrong with the application, and lack a balance of criticism and appreciation ("nothing works"). Individuals with good ideas must usually know the key individuals in the "Business" and must be able to influence these individuals to further their ideas in some form. In large scale transformations, such as going from a traditional Telco to an all Internet Protocol world, these key individuals must be able to resolve a high scale of complexity for a new area of business they have never encountered before. Given the overwhelming complexity of existing systems and applications, these new initiatives have a tendency to try and understand new business in terms of existing business and do little more than trying to repeat the past effectively.

Therefore create physical and virtual spaces where the experience of individuals, both customers and staff, can be shared as stories. Stories are narratives of an experience as it was experienced, rather than models such as user stories, use cases, value-chain diagrams, or business process descriptions. Staff are trained to narrate stories in a medium of their choice (text, audio, or video) of their work experience that are descriptive and interesting with a balance of criticism and appreciation. Individuals are encouraged to share their experiences as much as possible in open social networks (physical and virtual) without fear of repercussion or adverse consequences, either using their own names or anonymously. Managers and leaders become responsible for organizing the physical and virtual spaces for gathering stories. They also catalog and categorizing stories in clusters so that the rest of the organization can access, process, and understand the exact nature of work and challenges faced by the customers and staff on a daily basis. The correlation of stories to changes is made visible in the same physical and virtual spaces. The applications used by support staff have features for open feedback freely accessible by other staff. Analysts, designers, and developers have ready access to operational staff to understand the nature of their work and propose, prototype, and introduce changes facilitated by the managers and leaders who organize the physical and virtual spaces for those staff. Analysts can add their artifacts, such as their interpreted requirements, designs, prioritizations, and analysis in the same physical and virtual spaces as the stories. Workload is openly visible to others, and managers and leaders can choose to have either dedicated moments and spaces for organization-wide interactions or be open for them to occur at any time. Similarly applications provided to customers have clear methods to provide feedback to the people who build the applications. The most passionate customers are nurtured as product ambassadors and developed as an extended part of the organization.

Working Alongside each other to Plant in the Single Garden in the Fortified Town and Low-walled Town Communities, Everyone Cares to shape a business together. The Few Skilled Gardeners work with managers and leaders to help create open physical and virtual spaces for sharing stories. Nurture Keystones to create a Participating Demographic who are as passionate about the product as those who create and operate them. Analysts and other individuals who translate stories to artifacts Specify to Operationalize, doing the minimum necessary to realize the application and making it operational.\

Margin call on "Therefore create physical and virtual spaces": The Embodied Making [linkto:http://www.embodiedmaking.org] provides a method for sensemaking using stories, forces, and solutions. Effective story-telling is a practice that requires texture in terms of detail and coverage in terms of ensuring that all aspects that should be covered are in the story.
