Growth supports|2

Trellis, Girdle, Stake. Create just enough structures to help a product grow with time.

New product initiatives are often used to realize previously unfulfilled initiatives. There is a desire to reuse existing experiences and existing investments, although they might not be the best way to realize a product. Products are often launched carrying a lot of expectations on their backs. In some cases, products can be used sold in ways that they weren't intended to be used, and these unanticipated applications can lead to problems in their market perception. Early failures, either because of technical teething problems, poor market adoption, or negative feedback can cast a new product in a poor light, sometimes to the extent that it is rapidly removed. Disruptive innovations, in particular, can face greater scrutiny than other products due to skeptics or champions of existing products. When products are launched, not everyone is aware of their launch, and problems with the product can often disrupt activities of individuals with no prior involvement in the product. For example, customer support agents who have not learned about a product's launch may receive calls from customers who are encountering problems with the product.

Therefore provide new products with the support they need to fuel their initial growth. Identify the salient purpose of the product and use that to base its essence. Identify what makes the product unique compared to other products in the portfolio and market, and launch products with the minimal set of functionality that fulfills its essence. Avoid grafting features from other stable products that deviate from its salient purpose and essence. Instead, try determine how the new product complements existing products, and how the most stable products, and the customers of the most stable products, can be used to support this new product. If the new product has a completely different market from conventional products, market it with products from partners that best complement its intended market. Make new product launches as visible as possible, and encourage individuals within the company to use them before their public launch. Counter skepticism about the product with clear criteria on the product's success and failure. Instruct sales, marketing, and operational staff to provide extra attention on a product that has just been launched, and ask them to anticipate unforeseen issues. If there are technical problems that impact the stability of the product, be as clear and transparent to customers about the nature of the problem and which parts of the product can still be operated. As the product stabilizes and gains market share, slowly refocus the additional support on other products.

Protect newly launched products from fierce elements by ensuring they receive have gradual and Ringed growth and remain true to their Signature aromas with a minimal set of features. Establish Product markers that define their criteria for success and failure, and protect them from skeptics by giving them a chance to grow in the Shade from others when the complement existing products well, and by placing them within Themed areas that mark their distinctive qualities. Exotic plants may need more shelter than others, and use the Three Champions and Participating demographic to first launch the product within Trusted circles. Ask the Low-walled town communities to help the product's initial growth with the Few skilled gardeners keeping a close watch on the product's behavior in the first few days after its launch.