Hardy Perennials|3|Operations

Develop and nurture a few drought-resistant strains that consistently sustain yields during difficult times. Wean off the dependence on these strains during better times, and cultivate a mindset of developing perennials as reserves we don't depend upon.

Despite the scale of change inherent in the telecommunications industry with frequent changes in communications protocols (e.g. WAP, UMTS, LTE) and communications devices (e.g. GSM-capable phones, WAP-capable devices, etc.), the patterns of consumption for some customers remains relatively stable. Although faster data speeds have now made calling possible using an all-Internet Protocol (IP) network, the actual experience of calling only using voice tends to remain relatively stable. While it is possible to augment that experience multi-party calling with live video, the vast majority of customers continue to use voice-only calling. The social behaviour of those habituated to voice-only calling also tends to remain stable, where the primary expectation is for consistent call quality. For example, a sales person calling an existing customer may not want to overly intrude on that customer's personal space, and a voice-only call provides that quality of experience. Similarly the experience of messaging technology, which we can retrospectively correlate as having evolved from telegrams to SMSes to IP messaging, has remained relatively stable in terms of using a few characters to communicate a thought. However most Telcos do not focus on understanding the stable experiences and communications habits, and tend to focus instead on marketing access technology (e.g. 3G, 4G, Fiber, etc), speeds (56KBps, 100 MBps, etc.), and media quality (1080p, 4K, etc.). Given the strong influence of device manufacturers or application vendors, their own strategies tend to become the defacto strategies of Telcos. For instance, application vendors in the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) space tend to promote ideas like seamless cross-channel sales where a prospect can initially use a mobile application to enquire about a product while they are on the road, then transition to purchasing the product on a web-browser on a desktop once they reach their workplace, and then go to pickup and pay for the product from a nearby store avoiding lengthy queues. While such a scenario is of value for an individual facing that specific situation, application vendors for whom this is a differentiating feature will tend to position the scenario as critical to the future of customer sales. Similarly device vendors who have seamless cross-device transitioning, where a movie can be viewed on a mobile device while on the road and then seamlessly transitioned to a large-screen television once they are at home with a swipe of a finger in the direction of the television, rely on using these features as differentiators from their competitors. The differentiating features of the device manufacturer are usually promoted through their own advertisement campaigns, and there is a tendency for Telcos to position themselves as providing the access to enable these experiences. In doing so, Telcos tend to focus on sustaining the next big experience rather than understanding the stable patterns of experience exhibited by the majority of their customers. On the other hand, Telcos usually have a good understanding of the stable patterns of consumption of their customers. By correlating the stable patterns of consumption with revenue opportunities, most Telcos tend to create a wide variety of products with different pricing schemes. Product differentiation tends to occur around pricing differentiation on consumption rather than experience, leading to a proliferation of products that tend to be indistinguishable from each other. Given the poor understanding of customer experience around their consumption, Telcos are usually unable to position themselves as a lifestyle provider such as a automobile or entertainment system manufacturer. In times of recession or poor economic growth, Telcos typically consolidate their positon as an essential utility like power or water, further commoditizing their offering.

Margin Call on "application vendors in the CRM": Not all Telco products are purchased by individuals. Most families tend to purchase Telco products together using a common device (e.g. a Desktop computer at home).

Margin Call on "Similarly device vendors who have": If the struggles of a family with a remote control are anything to go by, there are perhaps a few select scenarios where an individual can impose their personal viewing choices on a group of individuals without taking a moment to explain the necessity for the transition.

Therefore create a few lifestyle products that are resilient to recessions by understanding the stable experiences people desire in good times and bad. For example, individuals and families who lead a healthy lifestyle will probably prioritize the need for good food and regular exercise, and communications solutions that enable them to access to both with greater flexibility, convenience, and price competitiveness will remain relatively resilient to recessions. Similarly communications solutions that enable individuals to strengthen existing relationships and find meaningful new ones are likely to be be used in good times and bad. There should be some threshold to obtaining these products, either through community referrals or by assessing fit to sustain some exclusivity. Make the usage and possession of these products visible to others within their social network, positioning them as a lifestyle choice. Rather than create mass-market products, position these products as mass-customizable, where an individual's choices and usage customizes the product over time to become the individual's own. The termination of the product should create a sense of loss, either in terms of a perception of wealth possessed in the product, or in terms of personal customization that is difficult to instantly re-establish. Make it possible for customers to temporarily suspend the product for a smaller or no charge to re-activate usage where they left off. Avoid excessive exploitation of these products, and offer only a few variations.

Understand stable patterns in the lives of customers through the Participating Demographic and the Three Product Champions. Position possibility for these products above others, and make them exclusive through referrals. Make it possible for referred customers to get One just like that One from their referred network. Evolve a few of these products into Classic Lines, and judiciously permit these to grow Deep Roots if required.
