Kitchen Garden|3|Market Strategy

People in Telcos are the first ones to use our own Products, and products intended for business customers are used first in their own business.

People who work in Telcos have their own communication needs in their spaces for work, rest, or recreation. For their work-related activities, most Telcos offer some of their employees mobile devices with post-paid contracts based on their needs. In some cases, employees have access to the communications products only during office hours. Telcos that offer commercial solutions for businesses increasingly provide access-independent and value-added products and services such as cloud-based storage or productivity products, mostly in partnership with software vendors. However most Telcos consider these business products only applicable for their business customers and not themselves. A business itself, Telcos rarely use their business solutions themselves. Employees of Telcos increasingly work from multiple offices and at home, while they are at a hotel, or while they are commuting. The rich variety of situations faced by employees of a Telco serves as ample testing ground for emergent workspace trends such as distributed workplaces and social collaboration. For their personal consumption needs, such as cable tv, personal email, and internet access at home, most employees are offered discounts on subscriptions. In some Telcos that are publicly traded, periodic financial goals are translated into employee targets. The most desirable devices, such as a smartphone, are sometimes offered as incentives for employees that achieve their performance targets. As Telcos diversify into other products such as media (books, movies, music, etc.), banking services, or travel services, the applicability of a Telco's solution has greater importance to the personal and professional lives of the people who work in the Telcos.

Therefore Telcos are the first to try the products grown in their own environments. Individuals within the company are encouraged to map their activities to the possible Telco solutions on offer, and be the first to try them out at work or home. Telcos treat their own business as centers of best practices that they apply to their own business customers. The homes of Telco employees are showcases of excellence in Telco solutions, and Telco employees can be proud of sharing their lifestyle solutions with their family, friends, neighbours, and other members of their social network.

By operating each department and section (units) of a Telco as Profit Centers, employees are encourage to concept, create, develop, market, sell, and operate products that solve situations in their work, play, and home lives in the Internal Bazaar. The most mature solutions are offered in the Experience Store, and business customers are able to offer their own Internal Bazaars. Irrigation channels are used to understand to what extend the units treat other units as customers, and Everyone Cares to create products of excellence people would be proud to use and recommend to others.
