Low-Walled Town Communities|2

Product development communities have low walls (chest‐high) between each other in order to exchange and develop ideas easily. Have other product communities design, implement, document, and test products together.

Telecom operators typically have several products that are being conceived, realized, operated, or retired simultaneously by several individuals with different areas of expertise within different departments. Given that each department tends to focus on specific aspects of these product, such as the marketing department focusing on the product's market penetration, the customer service department resolving issues with the product, and operations department ensuring the stability of the product, there are often communication lapses. These communication lapses can range from inconsistent information about the product to poor reuse of individual product capabilities across the product range. Features that tend to be similar between some products (e.g. price plans based around voice, messaging, and data) tend to utilize standard implementation practices, and are often fulfilled through common systems. There is also a tendency for subject matter experts to emerge based on these common practices. Dissimilar features, on the other hand, tend to be developed with specific implementations for that specific product. The marketing activities around the product tend to focus on its differences from other products, due to product's market differentiation, rather than its similarities with existing products. For instance, when Telecom Operators first launched Blackberry-based products, they were innovative products that offered a superior experience around email and internet services, and required specialized implementations by Telecom Operators. This was closely followed by rival devices and services, each of which had unique features that differentiating them from the others. Telecom operators soon realized that they required common means to handle IP (Internet Protocol) traffic, eventually seeing common standards and practices emerge. Furthermore,after the product has been implemented, it often emerges that the different teams could have worked together to build shared implementation, and it is these insights that evolve into standard practices. However, these insights tend to occur after the effort has been put in to develop different specialized implementations. Implementers also tend to have some pride attached to their implementations, and having an objective discussion on which implementation is more superior than the other tends to be difficult. Project managers. who are usually appointed to realize a stable product with fixed time, budgets, and resources, tend to be averse to any initiatives that could jeopardize their delivery schedule. Knowledge sharing or co-development initiatives between product realization teams are usually discouraged as they are perceived to derail individual project time-lines and scope. Individuals in these product realization teams who are familiar with the organization have the advantage of knowing the subject matter experts, but consulting these experts is then left to the initiative of these individuals. Project teams that have a high quotient of new people unfamiliar with the organization, which is often the case when using specialized vendors or new skills, tend not to know both the subject matter experts in the organization and the existing systems complexity. Over time, each product is realized in relatively isolated silos with several areas of redundant effort and implementations. The larger the organization, the greater the likelihood that several product teams are at work simultaneously, and the greater the likelihood that they unaware of each others efforts. While it is possible to mitigate these redundancies through a strict process of governance, this either requires the individuals involved with the governance activities to have deep involvement with the individual projects or to have individual project members report their project activities to governance personnel. In either case, projects have to conform to a strict process of governance, which often introduces delays. There is a tendency for individuals concerned with governance to focus on reuse and standards, which often lead to additional implementation considerations, additional resource capacity, and additional time. These are the three things most likely to upset the project manager responsible for the product realization. Finally, innovative or differentiating products are often developed under strict confidentiality to ensure that the competitive market advantage or first-mover advantage remains until the launch of the product.

Therefore create visible work-spaces within and between product-teams. Product teams should operate with the highest security clearance in the organization, which would permit them to speak to each other without fear of compromising sensitive information. Individuals responsible for product design should document their work on spaces where their work is visible to all members within and beyond the product team. Documentation should be focused on helping the product go operational. Individuals responsible for the implementation of products should open their source code and configurations for scrutiny by all product teams. Source code, configurations, prototypes, product data, and documentation are visible, searchable, and accessible by all product teams. Products are deployed using a common language for the components utilized by a product. The products themselves can coexist with other products by design, and each product advertises a set of events that other products can consume. Products react to these events, giving the possibility for no two product instances to be exactly the same. Product teams have regular rhythms for meeting during the week in common spaces, such as fixed face-to-face or virtual knowledge sharing sessions, and these regular rhythms are respected. If rhythms are missed due to some reason, this is made visible within the organization. The success of a product team is judged by how well they deliver their products and how well they share their knowledge with other teams. Product managers constantly meet other product managers to discuss product features, implementations, and practices. Product teams first take their products and test it within the organization, and are able to receive feedback from anyone within the organization. Non-product team members of the organization, such as customer support and sales staff, have access to a common product knowledge base. This knowledge base contains information about how to use the product, usage of the product, common issues, and issue resolutions. Almost everyone in the organization of the Telecom operator should have access to this information. Sensitive commercial information should be avoided in this knowledge base. Finally, parts of this knowledge base should be opened up to customers so they can provide direct feedback about the usage and experience of the product.

Product teams operate within Trusted Circles where they can freely share information with each other within the Fortified Town. By Specifying to Operationalize, the Three Champions and the Few Skilled Gardeners create and encourage others to create documentation that helps both sustain the product itself, and other products so that Many Products Coexist. Living Prototypes and Living Data Everywhere created by product teams are visible to other product teams, as well as Source Code, Configurations, and Documentation. Using a common language for Declarative Component Dependencies, teams are able to view Components, understand their usage, and discover opportunities for reuse. Product teams meet at the town well to discuss their products, and when their products are ready, they share them first with people within the organization so that the Whole Town Participates. The Participating Customer Demographic and the Three Champions lead efforts for usage adoption within the organization, encouraging all participants and users to utilize the Product and share experience and knowledge on the Productpedia.