Own Base Currency|2

Operators have their own Base Currency, and Customers are compensated with a Telco’s own Products. Conversions to 3rd party products, such as Retail Loyalty Points, is done from the Base Currency.

Telcos have traditionally combined access-dependent products such as voice, messaging, and data around rigid subscriptions with fixed durations in contractual arrangements. Attention has traditionally focused on two critical moments in a customer's lifecycle, acquisition and retention. In markets where Telco product ownership has reached saturation point, in that anyone who is a potential Telco customer is already with a Telco provider, operators are focused primarily on retaining customers whose contracts are about to run out (retention) while trying to attract customers leaving other providers (acquisition). Subsequently, the end-dates of customer's contracts are highly sensitive information, and cases where this information is leaked to rival operators is treated with the greatest severity. Some operators go to the extent of obfuscating the end-date from their own customers, which usually adds to the distrust. Operators try and entice customers to stay with generic retention offers towards the end of their contract. There is usually very little focus on the customer's lifecycle after they have been acquired and their contracts are about to run out. The customer's individual experience with the brand is poorly understood, if at all, and the few interaction moments a Telco has with their Customers tends to be over bill disputes or service issues. Although many Telcos have loyalty programs based on usage, often retrospectively calculated from their monthly bills, which customers are able to redeem through loyalty partners. Most customers with contracts also have direct-debit arrangements, where the monthly dues are automatically credited to the Telco's account. Customers are increasingly unlikely to read the paper invoice posted to their homes that may contain their loyalty rewards, and many operators provide an option to only receive electronic bills. Loyalty programs are usually operated with retail or travel partners, and access to these programs is usually only through a customer service channel, which is typically used only when there are issues. As loyalty rewards are usually granted through partners, the currency of partners is used to reward customers, such as loyalty points from an Airline or Retail chain. As a consequence, most customers are unaware of their loyalty rewards, and these loyalty rewards are rarely used to retain customers. Customers who are aware of their loyalty rewards spend them with retail or travel companies. While these companies benefit from enriching their customer profiling knowledge, this knowledge is rarely shared with the Telco operator. Historical attempts to reward customers in terms of their own products of voice, messaging, and data has also been difficult as it has been difficult to redeem rewards as consumption occurs. Rather, reward redemption in terms of their own products have historically occurred with the generation of the bill, making the experience between consumption and redemption too far apart. With an all Internet Protocol world and the prevalence of Smartphones, customers are increasingly using their data connectivity to consume a variety of access-independent products, ranging from media to augmented reality. The consumption of these products are usually other providers and not the Telco, where operators are only used for access to these products. Most operators are not able to continue relationships with customers after they decide to leave for another provider, as the termination of their contract brings an end to all relationships.

Therefore offer all loyalty rewards using the Telco's own base currency, and correlate the base currency to the Telco's own products. Offer variable exchange rates to the products of others within moments of the consumption. Customers are able to view the balance of their rewards across multiple devices, and options for their redemption are always visible with the balance. Customers are able to redeem their rewards to any access-based products such as media within moments, making it possible to redeem rewards gathered making phone calls to watch a free movie or a cheap international call. Offer products contextually based on a customer's location, time-of-day, and social occasion. Exchange rates are variably set based on demand, network capacity, and availability. Customers renewing their subscriptions are provided relatively a high amount of rewards, and customers who decide to leave retain their rewards, either to spend on the access-independent products of the operator or with partners. Companies that have their Telco contracts for their employees with an operator have the option to keep the rewards themselves or distribute them to their employees. The Telco's own base currency is accepted as a primary means of reward and compensation across all of Telco's sales channels. Customer referrals, where they ask a friend or family to join the operator, is also rewarded with the Telco's own currency.

Use the Language for Product Instances to understand a customer's situation and Change History, and ensure that Everyone Cares about enriching a customer's experience with the operator. Nurture keystones by rewarding them with the Own Base Currency, and permit Customers to ask for One just like that One anytime in their relationship with the Operator by being Adaptable with Life. When customers choose to Port Providers, let them go with grace and let them retain their rewards for spending with the operator they are leaving or others.
