Plant in a Single Garden|1

Virtual products can seemingly possess infinite space, but in reality only have finite capacity. Represent all products as occupying a single space.

The virtual nature of telecommunications products lends the impression that there is infinite capacity for products, but there exists finite capacity in individuals and systems for development, operational, and processing capacity. Products have a tendency to proliferate both in terms of diversity and volume, given this illusion of infinite space. Due to the diversity of the products, consumers have inconsistent experiences of the brand. Due to the volume of products, it becomes difficult for consumers to differentiate between products to the extent that products start competing with other products. Also due to the high volume of products, it also becomes unclear how all of the products complement each other.

Therefore use a finite visual space to represent all of the offered products. This space can only hold so many products at a time, and when this finite space becomes full, the order and placement of products must be re-arranged or products must be removed. Products can be arranged in this finite space based themes such as their ability to complement other products in common spaces or similar characteristics. As the arrangements stabilize, new products are always are placed this finite space in terms of the existing products.

Display all of the offered products using a strong visual metaphor representing a finite space at the Town Well. Through Constant Circulation and by Clearing Withering Products, introduce a few new products while removing a few old products. Create Themed Areas within this finite space to group Products together where young products have Growth Supports and receive Shade from Others, and permit their collective Signature Aromas to spread within the Low-Walled Town Communities. The latest Recast Moulds should exist in a place of prominence in this visual and finite space.

Planted in a Single Garden,Planted in the Single Garden