embodied-makings-approach-1

A key tenet in embodied making is to understand experiences and situations to their full extent, no matter how complex or chaotic they may appear. Sense-making frameworks like the Cynefin provide assistance in understanding and analysis.

If a customer complains about the lack of clear opening times on a shop, the solution and situation in this case is simple, which is to provide visible opening times for the shop. In a more complicated situation, a customer could want to know about the best product for them, which would necessitate some interactions and analysis.

embodied-makings-approach-2

A habit that tends to exist in problem solving environments is to come up with simple solutions without understanding the true complexity or complications inherent in seemingly chaotic environments. The tendency is to jump straight away from chaotic situations to simple solutions, which usually bring us back to chaotic situations.

In a complex situation, a customer could show up requesting a product the business doesn’t offer, and walk out of the store disappointed. In retrospect, the store owner could realize that a partnership with another nearby store would have ensured that the customer left satisfied. In a chaotic situations where no established relationship between cause and effect, such as customers leaving despite being offered the best prices and superior service, the desire to be able to solve things still remains.

embodied-makings-approach-3

Embodied making encourages designers to understand the nature of chaos through experience, extract complex situations from those experiences, then come to solutions that solve complexity, from those understand complicated situations, then come to solutions that solve those complications, from those understand simple situations, and finally come to simple solutions. It’s a painful and long process, but the solutions will be stable.

By deep reflection on the chaotic, some complicated situations can be identified, such as brand perception across market segments, and solutions can be found to question with departed customers on their perception of the brand and the intangible aspects that led them to explore new choices.

embodied-makings-approach-4

At each stage, try and understand chaos and complexity through stories told about experiences. As you listen to more stories and understand the forces, you might be initially overwhelmed by the volume of stories and forces. The process of finding patterns in the stories and extracting forces from them is usually an enjoyable one, and after a while you will have an adequate body of stories and derived forces.

From these interactions, complicated situations could be divined, such as customers providing the feedback that the brand appeared old and outdated despite providing a good quality product, from which simple solutions can be found, like re-branding.

embodied-makings-approach-5

The moment when something feels adequate is up to the your discretion and that of your fellow designers. After this point, you will have to make a conscious effort to simultaneously derive solutions, find more forces as you determine solutions, and uncover more stories. To use the analogy of acrobats spinning plates, you will need to spin the 3 plates of stories, forces, and solutions at a balanced pace. Spin any too slowly or fast, they fall and break. Spin them all at a steady pace if possible.

When there is a tendency to go direct from chaotic situations to simple solutions, a tendency also exists to give new names to old ideas, or misappropriating philosophies such as pragmatism to mean things they don’t represent. Throughout the process of design, stories, forces, and solutions should be considered as simultaneously as possible to understand situations for what they really are.

embodied-makings-approach-6

Embodied making treats the ability of balancing forces as requirements, rather than explicitly stating desired forms or solutions in the manner of must haves, should haves, could haves, or won’t haves. In the design process, don’t discount some stories or forces as being insignificant early in the design process. Also refrain from defining solution boundaries and scope in the early phases of the design process, and make an effort to understand the entire environment or eco-system where your eventual designs will exist.

Stories are used to understand situations, and forces are used to understand why situations turn out the way they do. By documenting stories, forces, and solutions diligently, designers can ensure participation by others at later phases and provide documented means of collective reflection.

