participation-engagement-reflection-1

Formal and informal systems within large organizations are built with the perspectives of several individuals. There is a tendency for influential individuals to create a bias within systems in favor. To avoid this, it is important to engage at every level of an organization (if formal levels exist), and assembling an accurate picture of what is required from effective systems. Insights gained through this process of inquiry are key in making organizations efficient and effective.

For instance, consider the features necessary for a new company-wide computer system where your primary stakeholders are from departments representing internal financial administration. It is probable that most functions in this new system would help create stability and efficiency for internal administration but not other tasks.

participation-engagement-reflection-2

When applying embodied making, it important the voices of individuals to find their way into the system design. The best person to teach you about production processes is someone working on the floor every day. This has to be balanced with stakeholders such as organizational leaders, who may have a different perspective the characteristics of an effective system. Cataloging perspectives openly will help create balanced systems that meet the needs of people across the organization.

Examples of some individuals bending the system to create stability for themselves range from system maintainers choosing to make upgrades at times most convenient for themselves but not for the system’s users, or ERP systems that design all work tasks based solely on financial rules, or production systems structured to help management reporting.

participation-engagement-reflection-3

When a formal mandate exists to design a new system, system designers tend to find themselves overwhelmed with participants who want to influence the system’s design. On the contrary, when no formal charter exists, it becomes quite hard to find individuals willing to engage and provide their insights. In either case, it is best to engage with individuals in small circles, exceeding no more than 2 or 3 individuals for each session (including the designer), and widening circles progressively.

If the system has to facilitate tasks performed by a specific group of individuals, involve these individuals in the design process as early as possible. For instance, in order to design an effective point-of-sale system, involve store sales staff who work with the system everyday as they are the most likely group with ideas on how to improve their work.

participation-engagement-reflection-4

Sharing experiences and ideas with broader circles is most effectively done through records of these interactions, either in the form of written text, recorded audio, or recorded video. Records of these experiences and ideas should be easy to find and share, and others that are unfamiliar with the context of the records should be able to understand them easily.

Reluctance in recording experiences stems from either the experience being of a sensitive nature that may have negative implications of the narrator or characters in the narrative, or the experience being partially or complete untrue, or from a hidden agenda of the narrator. If an experience cannot be shared, its value in system design is limited.

participation-engagement-reflection-5

Constant reflection on decision-making is required through the entire lifecycle of a system, ranging from inception, design, implementation, operation, alteration, deprecation, and retirement. Whenever there seems to be a definite course of action for a system, reflection on why this is so is valuable step to consider balanced approaches. Past practices provide experience, but they also deceptively lull us into trying to repeat the past. As fundamental and obvious as the need for reflection may be, it tends to occur a lot less than it should in daily practice.

It may seem that a specific set of functionality is absolutely required, but functionality that has been essential in the past may not be essential anymore. It may seem that a particular technology stack is optimal for all problems given that it is a standard of sorts, but the technology stack may have been built for another purpose.

participation-engagement-reflection-6

The process of reflection must extend to the methods we employ to solve our problems. All methods, including embodied making, have their limitations. Possessing knowledge of handful of methods that are useful in different situations The process of reflection should include determining the optimal methods and the necessary frame-of-mind required to solve complex problems. No single method can predict the rich variety of situations you will face, and single-mindedly applying a method is dangerous.

Embodied making is especially powerful at capturing human experience, and it complements other knowledge management techniques that are ontological, which are powerful at creating logical methods or intentional, which are powerful at reflecting processes. We strongly encourage the use of other methods alongside embodied making.
