what-is-embodied-making-1

Embodied making is an action research approach that requires participation, engagement and reflection. In action research, the designer works with rather than for people, is engaged as an equal in terms of understanding the design environment, and takes a reflective stance with regard to the work being done.

Embodied making requires that all participants within the design process have a strong understanding of actual situations that occur in the domain of the design. A strong understanding of these situations, and why they occur, provide key inferences for design decisions and architectural criteria.

what-is-embodied-making-2

Embodied making comes from two inter-related terms. Embodiment is a thought movement that considers the mind to be realized by the entire body and effective thinking to be inseparable from doing. Making emphasizes the active role in designers in engaged change. Embodied making is an alternative to other design methods which separate the design process from the realization process and the realization process from living with the designed results.

In contrast to embodied making, there are a number of other design methods and frameworks that encourage the use of layers to separate concerns. The assumption in this case is that some people do the thinking as that’s what they are good at, and others do the doing as that’s what they are good at. Each layer is used to create specializations.

what-is-embodied-making-3

Embodied making de-mystifies the design process from belonging to an exclusive few and makes it accessible to everyone engaged in an enterprise. It encourages both doing and thinking to be enterprise-wide activities. It discourages practices where one set of people do the thinking and another set of people do to the doing. It encourages the use of minimal structures and lays emphasis on improvisation. "I act, therefore I think".

This belief of separation of thinking and doing is reflective of the belief of separation of mind and body, perhaps most well articulated by “I think therefore I am”, creating organizations which believe that thinking should happen in one place, and the doing in another. Embodied making is designed to treat both thinking and doing integrally.

what-is-embodied-making-4

Embodied making is an inter-disciplinary approach to systems designs. It draws inspiration from several disciplines such as philosophy, architecture, mathematics, science, sociology, psychology, literature, and music. Each of these disciplines has logical and analogical lessons that have been applied to develop embodied making. Embodied making has been applied to develop software applications, human management systems, enterprise architecture, organizational structures, interior designs, and community structures.

In practice, it is not possible to separate thinking from doing. Performing the same task twice is never exactly the same, and new circumstances, altered environments, changing roles, new insights, unforeseen situations, and unintended applications make the process of doing an active process of thinking.

what-is-embodied-making-5

Embodied making is especially suitable for designing complex systems that involve people, technology, equipment, infrastructure, and organizations. It can be used to develop designs that address human behavior, technological considerations, organizational structures, equipment utilization, and infrastructure usage. It was originally developed to address the limitations of methods and frameworks that encourage a separation of thinking and doing, or provided design methods that have a narrow focus on a single discipline or aspect of design.

The team developing embodied making is an inter-disciplinary one, consisting of Philosophers, Sociologists, Artists, Engineers, Enterprise Architects, Interior Architects, and Programmers. This strong inter- disciplinary approach has contributed to a method that can be used to design behavioral, sociological, and technological solutions.

what-is-embodied-making-6

This document provides a combination of examples and theory. It is layered in terms of primary concepts, support text, and an exhaustive bibliography for further reading. The best way to understand embodied making is by practicing it, and we encourage readers practice the concepts on each sheet as they read the document.

Embodied making is particularly useful in finding effective solutions for complex problems. It provides the means to understand complex problems for what they are, and then provides a means to find several solutions for the same problem. It also provides the means to evaluate solution effectiveness for a given environment.
